Katie’s Apple Pie

Pastry:
Ingredients:
4 cup flour
1 3/4 cup butter (chilled is better!)
1 tbl. sugar
2 tsp. salt
1 tbl. vinegar
1 egg
1/2 cup cold water

Directions:
Cut Crisco and dry ingredients with a pastry knife
Blend in eggs and vinegar, work in minimally (don’t mash too much)
Roll dough into 1-2 balls and chill for at least 30 minutes (or freeze)

Filling:
Ingredients:
At least 8 apples (use a variety if possible—Honey Crisp, Gala, Fuji, Green Pippin, Granny Smith)
3 tbl. flour
1 1/2 - 2 cup sugar
1/2 cup lemon of juice
2 1/2 tsp. cinnamon (just enough to sprinkle on)
2 1/2 tsp. nutmeg (same goes as for the cinnamon)
1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 cube of butter (for later)

Directions:
Peel, quarter, and slice apples.
Mix with flour, sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt. Let sit for a few minutes, then taste. Add more sugar, spices, etc. if needed.

Pie Assembly/Bake:
Preheat oven to 350˚F, grease a 9x13” baking pan.
Roll out dough balls (use lots of flour to keep them from sticking to the counter/rolling pin!)
Press first dough sheet into base and sides of baking pan.
Dump apples into baking pan, put dabs of butter on top of the filling.
Roll second dough sheet over apples, press onto edges to close the crust.
Poke vent holes in the top.
Bake for about an hour, check for apple juice bubbling out of the vent holes.
When the apple juice is bubbling, the pie is ready!


NOTE : For Dairy and Gluten free pie.

For the pie filling:
 
Drop out the butter.
Replace the 1/2 cup flour with 1/2 cup 1:1 gluten free flour.


For the Pastry:

Replace the Crisco with 1 cup Light olive oil.
Replace the flour with the 1:1 gluten free flour.
Crust will seem too runny when adding the olive oil. But, it will solid up some when adding the eggs and lemon juice. You can use more of the GF flour or cold water to adjust.
The crust will be more fragile than regular crust. So getting it on the pie on one piece may be a bit of a challenge.

The flour we used was : Bob's Red Mill GF 1:1 flour.


