Red beans and rice


Actually PINK BEANS and rice.


Night before : Brine 2 cups pink beans. (See recipe here)

Day of :

Cleanup of the smoked ham shank:
Grab a smoked ham shank, get it in a pot covered in water, get it boiling.  Once it starts to boil, cover it up and let it boil for 10 minutes.

After the ham shank has boiled for 10 minutes. Drain off the water and discard. Rinse the pot and the ham shank.

Making broth:
Place the ham shank back in the pot, cover with water and start it boiling. Cover, set in low and let it boil for 2 or so hours.

Start the goodies:
Corse dice up 1+ lbs of andouille sausage.
Add this to a large (6qt?) pot with a little olive oil and get it frying.

Fine chop 2 sticks of celery.
Fine chop 1 onion.
Fine chop 1 jalapeño pepper.
Semi-fine chop 1 paseo pepper.
Semi-fine chop 1 red sweet pepper.
Set aside.

Once the andouille sausage is done, remove and set aside. 
In the remaining oil add..

1 tsp pepper.
1 tsp dried thyme.
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper.
1 tsp chili powder.

Once all this is hot, add in the diced veggies. Fry all this up 'till the onions are clear.

While these are frying check to see if any drippings have come off of the sausage. If so, add these drippings to the frying veggies.

Doing the beans:
Once the ham shank is done boiling and the onions are clear..

Remove the ham shank from the water. Set aside. Pour the veggies and pork stock together in your favorite pot.

Remove the beans from their brine water. Rinse them and pour them in with the pork stock and veggies.

Be sure there is enough liquid to cover the beans completely. Add 2..3 bay leafs to this mixture. Get it boiling on low. The beans take 1 1/2 hour to cook.

Meat final prep:
Cut off and coarsely chop up all the good bits if the ham shank. Toss the rest.

After the bean & veggie mixture has simmered for about an hour, add in the saved shank meat as well as the saved sausage. Let this cook for at least another 1/2 hour.

If you would like it thicker, you can mash some beans against the side of the pot.


The rice:
In a large pot sprinkle..
1 tsp garlic powder
1/2 tsp turmeric
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp salt

Heat 'till you can smell the spices.

Add..
2 cups of rice
A sprinkle of olive oil.
Fry this stirring 'till the rice is covered in the oil.
Now add 4 cups of cold drinking water.  bring this to a boil. Cover, set heat to low, and let this simmer for 15 minutes.

Once the 15 minute are up, turn off the stove. Do not uncover, but let the pot sit covered for 15 more minutes.

Open the pot and fluff the rice.

Don't forget to pull out the bay leaves before serving. Garnish with chopped green onions and a sprinkle of hot sauce.
