Ma went bananas for this one.

Umm.. you'll need the stock from one Cajun spiced rotisserie chicken. And I do mean all of it. Well most of it. Also, we use all chicken sausage because we're old and it's soooo easy to get fat now.

This one builds flavor in layers. Order of operations is important. (At least I think so.)

Dice up 1 package chicken andouille sausage.
Dice up 1 package chicken spicy Italian sausage.
Add some olive oil in a Dutch oven toss in all the sausage and get this frying.
You want to get the oil rendered out and build up a bunch of liquid flavor.

Chop up one large or maybe 2 medium onions.
Deseed and chop up one paseo pepper.
Deseed and fine chop up about 3 Jalapeño peppers.

When the sausage has fully rendered out. Pull it all out of the pot and set aside. Make sure all of the rendered oil stays in the pot. In fact, as more oil drips off the sausage, you'll need to add it into the pot as well.

Add a good shake of Cajun spice blend.
Another good shake of chili powder.
About a half a good shake of powdered cumin.
A small shake of cayenne pepper.

Get this all hot, with yet another drizzle of olive oil.

Add in all the veggies, get them frying.
As these fry up you can add a spoonful or so of the chicken stock for deglazing and keeping temp under control.
Salt & pepper to taste.

Shell & devein about a pound or 2 of shrimp. (Was it one or two pounds? I donno' shrimp's Julie's thing so she just handed me a cereal bowl of prepped shrimp.

Once all the veggies are soft & the onions are clear.. Pull them all out of the pot and set aside to drain. As with the sausage, as they drain make sure it all gets back into the pot.

By now the pot should have a good layer of VERY SPICY sludge on the bottom. Dump in the shrimp and start them frying. Adding drizzles of oil or spoonfuls of chicken broth as needed.

Shrimp done? Pull them out and dump them into where you are storing your sausage.

Peel and dice up 2 giant or maybe 4 medium potatoes. I did one and it wasn't enough.
Shuck 4 ears of fresh corn. Slice into thirds.

Dump ALL the chicken stock into the pot, get this boiling. 

Dump in the potatoes. Boil them 'till getting tender.

Now dump everything back into the pot including the ears of corn. Add water 'till everything is covered. Then add a small splash (2 tbl to maybe 1/4 cup) of Stubbs "Sweet Heat" BBQ sauce.

Once the corn is done. Salt & pepper to taste.

Serve in a cereal bowl with a piece of corn. Eat the soup then bite into the corn as dessert. 

MMM MMM tasty!
